---
type: Web Page
title: v1.0.0 | Backstage Software Catalog and Developer Platform
description: Backstage Release v1.0.0
resource: https://backstage.io/docs/releases/v1.0.0
timestamp: '2026-07-06T13:23:17.605783+00:00'
---

# v1.0.0

These are the release notes for the v1.0.0 release of Backstage.

A huge thanks to the whole team of maintainers and contributors as well as the amazing Backstage Community for the hard work in getting this release developed and done.

## Highlights

### Packages Reaching 1.0

Several packages have reached version 1.0, you can read more about the effect of this in our versioning policy.

#### Backstage Core

- `@backstage/app-defaults`
- `@backstage/config-loader`
- `@backstage/config`
- `@backstage/core-app-api`
- `@backstage/core-plugin-api`
- `@backstage/dev-utils`
- `@backstage/errors`
- `@backstage/integration-react`
- `@backstage/integration`
- `@backstage/test-utils`
- `@backstage/types`
- `@backstage/version-bridge`

#### Software Catalog

- `@backstage/catalog-client`
- `@backstage/catalog-model`
- `@backstage/plugin-catalog-backend`
- `@backstage/plugin-catalog-common`
- `@backstage/plugin-catalog-react`
- `@backstage/plugin-catalog`

#### Software Templates

- `@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend`
- `@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-common`
- `@backstage/plugin-scaffolder`

#### TechDocs

- `@backstage/plugin-techdocs-backend`
- `@backstage/plugin-techdocs-node`
- `@backstage/plugin-techdocs`
- `@techdocs/cli`

### Switch from `@vscode/sqlite3` to `better-sqlite3`

The default SQLite3 driver has been switched to better-sqlite3, as many users were running into issues with installation of `@vscode/sqlite3`.

### New plugin: Google Calendar

The new `@backstage/plugin-gcalendar` plugin provides a home page widget that shows your Google Calendar events. Contributed by @alexrybch (#9719)

### Scaffolder Template Preview

The scaffolder page now provides a editor and preview page for templates, where you can see a live preview of the template form. The preview page can be found under the `/preview` sub route, typically at `/create/preview`. Contributed by @kuangp (#9841)

### Package renames:

The following packages have been renamed, be sure to update your usage:

- `@backstage/search-common`->- `@backstage/plugin-search-common`
- `@backstage/techdocs-common`->- `@backstage/plugin-techdocs-node`

## Security Fixes

This release does not contain any security fixes.

## Upgrade path

We recommend that you keep your Backstage project up to date with this latest release. For more guidance on how to upgrade, check out the documentation for keeping Backstage updated.

## Links and References

Below you can find a list of links and references to help you learn about and start using this new release.

- Backstage official website, documentation, and getting started guide
- GitHub repository
- Backstage's versioning and support policy
- Community Discord for discussions and support
- Changelog for this release
- Backstage Demos, Blog, Roadmap and Plugins

Sign up for our newsletter if you want to be informed about what is happening in the world of Backstage.

# Citations

1. Source page: https://backstage.io/docs/releases/v1.0.0
