---
type: Web Page
title: v1.10.0 | Backstage Software Catalog and Developer Platform
description: Backstage Release v1.10.0
resource: https://backstage.io/docs/releases/v1.10.0
timestamp: '2026-07-06T13:23:17.605783+00:00'
---

# v1.10.0

These are the release notes for the v1.10.0 release of Backstage.

A huge thanks to the whole team of maintainers and contributors as well as the amazing Backstage Community for the hard work in getting this release developed and done.

## Highlights

`yarn new` instead of `yarn create-plugin`

The `create-plugin` command of the `backstage-cli` is deprecated, and we have removed its usage in newly created apps and in our documentation. We recommend that you update your root `package.json` as follows:

```
 "scripts": {
   ...
-  "create-plugin": "backstage-cli create-plugin --scope internal"
+  "new": "backstage-cli new --scope internal"
 }
```
### New Package: `@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-react`

We’ve made it easier to re-use some of the Scaffolder components outside of the Scaffolder plugin as well as re-homing some common types that might live between other frontend modules in the future. With this change there’s been some deprecations that have been shipped which are just renaming the imports from `@backstage/plugin-scaffolder` to `@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-react`. You can find out more in the changelog for the `@backstage/plugin-scaffolder`

### New Package: `@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-sentry`

A new module has been created that allows the creation of Sentry projects with a new `sentry:project:create` action.

Contributed by @dpfaffenbauer in #15639

### New Package: `@backstage/repo-tools`

Parts of the tooling that powers the Backstage main repository are being externalized, into the `@backstage/repo-tools` package. Documentation is sparse and so far it houses only the API extractor (which makes the `api-report.md` files) and the type dependencies check which makes sure that `@types/*` packages that are visible in the public API are added as dependencies.

### Scaffolder Improvements

Examples can now be added to `createTemplateAction` in the backend and can be browsed under `/create/actions` on your Backstage instance.

Contributed by @punkle in #15341

The `allowedKinds` has been deprecated from the `OwnerPicker` and `EntityPicker` in favor of a `catalogFilter` option that allows you to be more flexible in the filtering from the Catalog.

Contributed by @rikez in #15063

### Backend System Progress

We’ve made good progress towards getting the new backend system ready for broader testing. While we’re not quite there yet, you’ll see a lot of changes in the `@backstage/backend-app-api` and `@backstage/backend-plugin-api` packages as well as supporting packages like `@backstage/backend-defaults`.

### Event based updates in `GithubOrgEntityProvider`

There’s some initial support for event (web hook) based updates for GitHub org entities that are ingested using `GithubOrgEntityProvider`. We are excited to see the `events-backend` starting to power this type of functionality. More information on the setup can be found in the documentation.

Contributed by @angeliski in #14870

## Security Fixes

This release does not contain any security fixes.

## Upgrade path

We recommend that you keep your Backstage project up to date with this latest release. For more guidance on how to upgrade, check out the documentation for keeping Backstage updated.

## Links and References

Below you can find a list of links and references to help you learn about and start using this new release.

- Backstage official website, documentation, and getting started guide
- GitHub repository
- Backstage's versioning and support policy
- Community Discord for discussions and support
- Changelog
- Backstage Demos, Blog, Roadmap and Plugins

Sign up for our newsletter if you want to be informed about what is happening in the world of Backstage.

# Citations

1. Source page: https://backstage.io/docs/releases/v1.10.0
