---
type: Web Page
title: v1.16.0 | Backstage Software Catalog and Developer Platform
description: Backstage Release v1.16.0
resource: https://backstage.io/docs/releases/v1.16.0
timestamp: '2026-07-06T13:23:17.605783+00:00'
---

# v1.16.0

These are the release notes for the v1.16.0 release of Backstage.

A huge thanks to the whole team of maintainers and contributors as well as the amazing Backstage Community for their hard work in getting this release developed and done. A little smaller release this time with the Summer Holidays, hope you’re all having some deserved time off also!

## Highlights

### Continued support for Material-UI V5

There have been some more tweaks here or there to types and the theme system to ensure a smooth future migration toward Material-UI version 5. This should be mostly transparent to adopters, but please let us know if you encounter any oddities around the theme system after upgrading to this release.

### More plugins support the new Backend System

There’s been some more plugins that have been ported across to using the new Backend System. They are as follows:

- `@backstage/plugin-adr-backend`- Contributed by @angeliski in #18377
- `@backstage/plugin-airbrake-backend`- Contributed by @anicke in #18598
- `@backstage/plugin-azure-devops-backend`- Contributed by @awanlin in #18320
- `@backstage/plugin-badges-backend`- Contributed by @awanlin in #18464
- `@backstage/plugin-devtools-backend`- Contributed by @awanlin in #18320
- `@backstage/plugin-linguist-backend`- Contributed by @awanlin in #18320
- `@backstage/plugin-entity-feedback-backend`- Contributed by @anicke in #18361
- `@backstage/plugin-lighthouse-backend`- Contributed by @jroebu14 in #18633

Stay tuned for more updates on the future of the Backend System as we move to make this a stable API!

**BREAKING**: `@backstage/plugin-catalog-backend-module-incremental-ingestion`

Incremental event handlers are now async by default, and their response shape has been changed to allow further extension.

Instead of returning `null` or `undefined` from an event handler to indicate no-oop, instead return the value `{ type: "ignored" }`.

Contributed by @cowboyd in #18216

**BREAKING**: `@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-confluence-to-markdown`

The configuration has been changed and the authentication property of `confluence.auth` is now an `object` instead to allow further evolution.

Contributed by @jsundquist in #18583

`@backstage/plugin-lighthouse`

Added more verbose component for when no audits for a website corresponding to the provided url were found.

Contributed by @Zaperex in #18399

`@backstage/plugin-home`

A reference to material-ui’s dependency has been updated from `@rjsf/material-ui` to `@rjsf/material-ui-v5`.

Contributed by @mario-mui in #18432

It is now possible to customize the settings widget for different properties by using the`uiSchema` property.

Contributed by @ivangonzalezacuna in #18574

`@backstage/plugin-search`

Fixed bug in `View Full Results` link of Search Modal that did not navigate to the full results page.

Contributed by @ciprianna in #18407

## Security Fixes

This release does not contain any security fixes.

## Upgrade path

We recommend that you keep your Backstage project up to date with this latest release. For more guidance on how to upgrade, check out the documentation for keeping Backstage updated.

## Links and References

Below you can find a list of links and references to help you learn about and start using this new release.

- Backstage official website, documentation, and getting started guide
- GitHub repository
- Backstage's versioning and support policy
- Community Discord for discussions and support
- Changelog
- Backstage Demos, Blog, Roadmap and Plugins

Sign up for our newsletter if you want to be informed about what is happening in the world of Backstage.

# Citations

1. Source page: https://backstage.io/docs/releases/v1.16.0
