---
type: Web Page
title: v1.12.0 | Backstage Software Catalog and Developer Platform
description: Backstage Release v1.12.0
resource: https://backstage.io/docs/releases/v1.12.0
timestamp: '2026-07-06T13:23:17.605783+00:00'
---

# v1.12.0

These are the release notes for the v1.12.0 release of Backstage.

A huge thanks to the whole team of maintainers and contributors as well as the amazing Backstage Community for the hard work in getting this release developed and done.

## Highlights

This release mostly contains a bunch of smaller additions and bug fixes, but on top of that, there’s also some quality of life improvements and features as listed below. Enjoy!

### Using `zod` for action definitions

As a convenience, it is now possible to define your action inputs and outputs as `zod` schemas. This tends to be more convenient than writing JSON schema by hand, and gives you instant type feedback in your editor.

### Reading paginated data from the catalog

The catalog has a new backend endpoint and corresponding client method, for fetching entities with proper cursor based pagination and server side filtering and ordering. This will be used to target performance hot-spots in the frontend and elsewhere.

### Renamed backend system related plugin exports

As we settle the new backend system bit by bit, we have renamed a number of exports from individual plugins, to match the new recommended naming patterns. If you are already leveraging the new backend system, you may find that you need to update some imports. For example, `githubEntityProviderCatalogModule` was renamed to `catalogModuleGithubEntityProvider`. These were considered non-breaking since they are still in alpha. More details can be found in #16760 and #16764.

### New plugin: `catalog-backend` `puppetdb` module

Added a `catalogModulePuppetDbEntityProvider` alpha export for the new backend system. Contributed by @tdabasinskas in #16184

### New plugin: Octopus deploy

Octopus deployment plugin. Contributed by @jmezach in #16353

### New plugin: StackStorm

Integration with StackStorm. Contributed by @pamelin in #16152

## Security Fixes

This release does not contain any security fixes.

## Upgrade path

We recommend that you keep your Backstage project up to date with this latest release. For more guidance on how to upgrade, check out the documentation for keeping Backstage updated.

## Links and References

Below you can find a list of links and references to help you learn about and start using this new release.

- Backstage official website, documentation, and getting started guide
- GitHub repository
- Backstage's versioning and support policy
- Community Discord for discussions and support
- Changelog
- Backstage Demos, Blog, Roadmap and Plugins

Sign up for our newsletter if you want to be informed about what is happening in the world of Backstage.

# Citations

1. Source page: https://backstage.io/docs/releases/v1.12.0
