---
type: Web Page
title: v1.1.0 | Backstage Software Catalog and Developer Platform
description: Backstage Release v1.1.0
resource: https://backstage.io/docs/releases/v1.1.0
timestamp: '2026-07-06T13:23:17.605783+00:00'
---

# v1.1.0

These are the release notes for the v1.1.0 release of Backstage.

A huge thanks to the whole team of maintainers and contributors as well as the amazing Backstage Community for the hard work in getting this release developed and done.

## Highlights

### Auth

The auth backend and node package received a few **BREAKING** changes.

You are now required to always return a `token` from the result of a sign-in resolver, and all default sign-in resolvers have been removed. This means that you will have to make a conscious choice to use one of a few predefined resolver functions to be able to use a given auth provider for signing in, or to write your own. Don’t worry, it’s actually rather straightforward to do, and ends up clarifying responsibilities for safe authentication and catalog ownership.

There are also a number of deprecations among the exported auth backend types, which you may want to adapt to.

For more information, see the relevant documentation section about sign-in resolvers, and the backend/node changelogs.

### CLI

The CLI has bumped the `jest` version from `^26.0.1` to `^27.5.1`. You can find the complete list of breaking changes here.

We strongly recommend having completed the package role migration before upgrading to this version, as the package roles are used to automatically determine the testing environment for each package.

Note that one of the breaking changes of Jest 27 is that the `jsdom` environment no longer includes `setImmediate` and `clearImmediate`, which means you might need to update some of your frontend packages. Another notable change is that `jest.useFakeTimers` now defaults to the `'modern'` implementation, which also mocks microtasks.

### Kubernetes

The Kubernetes backend has a **BREAKING** change, in that cluster suppliers now need to cache their results to allow frequent calls to their methods. This was done to pave the way for custom suppliers that dynamically fetch results from the real authority, instead of hard coding them in config. Thanks @heyLu! (#10428)

### Permissions

The permission related packages received a number of **BREAKING** changes. Among other things, the names of types were settled to be made more crisp and clear. This will mostly apply to those who write custom permissions. This all goes to the common, node, and react packages, whose changelogs are linked here.

### Stack Overflow

There’s a new Stack Overflow frontend plugin with a corresponding backend!

### Misc

- 
The CI/CD Statistics plugin now has GitLab support, through the new GitLab module. Thanks @djamaile! (#10140) 
- 
The catalog AWS module added a new `AwsS3EntityProvider`as a replacement for the`AwsS3DiscoveryProcessor`. Thanks @pjungermann! (#10480)
- 
The permissions-related exports from the catalog backend have some breaking changes. These are all in alpha still, so this only applies to you if you are developing catalog permissions and import from `@backstage/plugin-catalog-backend/alpha`.

## Security Fixes

This release does not contain any security fixes.

## Upgrade path

We recommend that you keep your Backstage project up to date with this latest release. For more guidance on how to upgrade, check out the documentation for keeping Backstage updated.

## Links and References

Below you can find a list of links and references to help you learn about and start using this new release.

- Backstage official website, documentation, and getting started guide
- GitHub repository
- Backstage's versioning and support policy
- Community Discord for discussions and support
- Changelog
- Backstage Demos, Blog, Roadmap and Plugins

Sign up for our newsletter if you want to be informed about what is happening in the world of Backstage.

# Citations

1. Source page: https://backstage.io/docs/releases/v1.1.0
