---
type: Web Page
title: v1.20.0 | Backstage Software Catalog and Developer Platform
description: Backstage Release v1.20.0
resource: https://backstage.io/docs/releases/v1.20.0
timestamp: '2026-07-06T13:23:17.605783+00:00'
---

# v1.20.0

These are the release notes for the v1.20.0 release of Backstage.

A huge thanks to the whole team of maintainers and contributors as well as the amazing Backstage Community for the hard work in getting this release developed and done.

## Highlights

### Support for experimental type build has been removed

The `--experimental-type-build` option is no longer supported by any commands in the Backstage CLI. Existing usage should be migrated to using subpath exports instead.

### Experimental support for Vite ⚡

Due to some concerns about performance in larger monorepo setups and hot-reloading times, we’re looking to replace Webpack with Vite longer term, and in this release we’re shipping experimental support for Vite behind an `EXPERIMENTAL_VITE` environment variable flag when running `yarn start` in the frontend.

Please reach out by creating a GitHub issue with any problems that you might be running into when using this experimental feature.

### Scaffolder: `react-jsonschema-form@v5` + Design tweaks 💅

It’s finally here. We’ve shipped support for `react-jsonschema-form@v5` which **should** be a completely non-breaking change for end users. We’ve also tweaked some of the designs for some of the new Scaffolder Pages. You can read more in the relevant migration docs

### Catalog Presentation API

The Catalog plugin now uses the `EntityPresentationApi` to decide how entities are rendered in the UI. This includes fetching catalog data in the background in order to show entities using their `metadata.title`. For more information, including how to customize the presentation, see the PR, (documentation is in the works!).

## Security Fixes

This release does not contain any security fixes.

## Upgrade path

We recommend that you keep your Backstage project up to date with this latest release. For more guidance on how to upgrade, check out the documentation for keeping Backstage updated.

## Links and References

Below you can find a list of links and references to help you learn about and start using this new release.

- Backstage official website, documentation, and getting started guide
- GitHub repository
- Backstage's versioning and support policy
- Community Discord for discussions and support
- Changelog
- Backstage Demos, Blog, Roadmap and Plugins

Sign up for our newsletter if you want to be informed about what is happening in the world of Backstage.

# Citations

1. Source page: https://backstage.io/docs/releases/v1.20.0
