---
type: Web Page
title: v1.25.0 | Backstage Software Catalog and Developer Platform
description: Backstage Release v1.25.0
resource: https://backstage.io/docs/releases/v1.25.0
timestamp: '2026-07-06T13:23:17.605783+00:00'
---

# v1.25.0

These are the release notes for the v1.25.0 release of Backstage. This is an unscheduled release that replaces what would’ve otherwise been the `v1.25.0-next.1` release, due to a problem with the patch releases for `1.24.0`. The next main line release will still be released on April 16th as scheduled, but will now instead be `1.26.0`.

A huge thanks to the whole team of maintainers and contributors as well as the amazing Backstage Community for the hard work in getting this release developed and done.

## Highlights

### Auth service fixes

A number of fixes have been made to various plugins related to the new auth system:

Rate limiting has been disabled as it was a bit too aggressive and didn’t interact well with proxies. Fixes an issue in the TechDocs CLI related to cookie auth Fixes an integration issue of the new auth services in the Jenkins backend plugin Fixed an issue in the scaffolder were credentials weren’t forwarded correctly to the action context. Fixed an issue where the proxy backend blocked unauthenticated requests.

### Catalog

The catalog backend can now be extended with additional permissions through new `addPermissions` methods of the `CatalogBuilder` and `catalogPermissionExtensionPoint`.
The paginated catalog table now saves the search text in the query parameters and debounces the server requests.

## Security Fixes

This release does not contain any security fixes.

## Upgrade path

We recommend that you keep your Backstage project up to date with this latest release. For more guidance on how to upgrade, check out the documentation for keeping Backstage updated.

## Links and References

Below you can find a list of links and references to help you learn about and start using this new release.

- Backstage official website, documentation, and getting started guide
- GitHub repository
- Backstage's versioning and support policy
- Community Discord for discussions and support
- Changelog
- Backstage Demos, Blog, Roadmap and Plugins

Sign up for our newsletter if you want to be informed about what is happening in the world of Backstage.

# Citations

1. Source page: https://backstage.io/docs/releases/v1.25.0
